Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
But is there water coming in?
Like hell there is.
I'm on my way down now.
We had not had a vacation
since having a baby.
I think I went to John and I said
this would be a really good time for us
to do this amazing trip
that we've talked about doing for so long.
which was a huge deal for us.
The night of Friday 13th. I'd been
on board for four months as a dancer.
I had no idea something was gonna happen.
One moment. you are celebrating
and chilling with your family.
The next moment. you're just there.
powerless.
It felt like
the ground under our feet opened.
People were grabbing onto the walls
and grabbing onto each other.
This is straight out of a scene
of Titanic. completely.
Stories of fear and panic
from the cruise ship Costa Concordia.
Let's be honest.
you have thought about it every time
you get on a plane or a cruise ship.
What happens if something goes wrong?
Well. it happened.
Every time you close your eyes.
you see something from the night.
Just literally back in
the most terrifying moment
you've ever experienced with your family.
God. what have I done?
We'd been to Europe before.
but never together.
So it'd definitely be
our longest vacation together.
our furthest vacation together.
Our daughter. Lila. was 14 months old.
so we felt like it was a good opportunity
for us to do a really big trip together.
I'm pretty sure we packed
a suitcase of toys. diapers. diaper wipes.
you know. the whole thing.
We had so much stuff.
We were going to Paris.
Switzerland. Venice. Barcelona.
Ultimately. we would end on a cruise ship.
Yeah. I think that was a big part
of why we chose this vacation.
We took endless photos and videos.
made a ton of incredible memories.
I always wanted to go to Italy.
That was. like.
the highest on my bucket list.
but I didn't really know
I was going on a cruise ship.
I hadn't told her that part yet.
Just told her the Italy part.
but the cruise ship was gonna be
a special surprise.
We had been dating for about three years
at that time.
The idea was. at some point.
I was going to ask her to marry me.
If you ask someone to marry you.
you'd want the most romantic place
you could find.
and on this journey. there was
quite a few places to choose from.
This would just be
that moment where everything clicks.
She can't say no. right?
If you ask 'em in the perfect place?
Everybody thinks that.
if you're gonna do it. right?
When I arrived.
I was amazed with how big
and enormous the ship looked.
At the time. I was 17.
My mother wanted to celebrate
her 50th birthday.
She booked for me.
my boyfriend at the time.
and her childhood best friend. Luisa.
Since I was very little.
we did everything together.
I was about seven years old
when she was diagnosed with cancer.
But a few months before our departure.
her cancer was in remission.
This was definitely another big reason
to celebrate her birthday.
The first thing we did
was explore the… the ship.
I knew that it was going to be
the largest ship I've ever seen.
I still remember stepping into the ship
for the first time
and just being overwhelmed
by how extravagant everything was.
Very opulent. Chandeliers everywhere.
It seemed like everything was either made
of gold or glass or marble.
Very sort of old Italy.
You know.
just everything shining and perfect.
I didn't know exactly what room
I was gonna get when I booked it.
At that time.
the trip was quite expensive.
and I was a… a student.
But he made sure
he got the best room that we could have.
I was so happy because we got the balcony.
and we have this beautiful view.
We walked on the balcony.
and Nick pointed out.
"Hey look. about a floor or two below us
is the lifeboats."
The lifeboats.
And I thought.
"Well. I'll take a picture of that."
I've never been on a cruise ship.
and I thought. "Well. say if something
like the Titanic happens…"
And I said.
"It's not gonna be like the Titanic."
"I've been on cruises before. It's gonna
be fantastic. You're gonna love it."
Kids. don't you dare run away from here!
When we first got
on board. it was pretty amazing.
We met with someone that asked us
what we wanted to do
for the rest of the week.
We set up a spa day.
and it just was so exciting. right?
This was all happening so fast.
We had just gotten to our room.
Now we're walkin' around.
As we're walkin'.
I'm taking pictures of everything.
One of the amazing things about cruising
is that it's going to provide you
with everything.
And so for me. especially as a new mom.
that made it really easy.
There were endless restaurants
of every type.
you know. theaters. shows. casino.
The only difficulty. really.
is how to spend your time
in terms of how many choices there are.
I remember an ice cream bar
where you could make your own sundaes.
and I feel like it was 24 hours a day.
you could just eat ice cream
if you wanted.
This was back
when The Walking Dead was kinda big.
and so we'd always play a game.
You know. "If zombies attacked.
where would you go.
and what weapon would you use
to either fight or get out?"
Like. "Where would you go?
Would you go out that way or that way?"
And if it's a slow zombie.
where's the weapon you can use to stop it?
When he would do this to me.
the first time. I told him. "I don't know.
I wasn't really paying attention."
-And he's like. "Wrong!"
-Exactly.
-"Wrong!"
"That's where you messed up."
Slowly I started to really pay attention
to my surroundings.
The weather was clear.
a little cold because it was January.
However. it was a quiet evening
like any other.
I worked with Costa for about 43 years.
You always work on a ship.
Christmas. New Year's.
Easter. Saturday and Sunday.
I felt more at home on board than at home.
About 800 people worked for me
on the Costa Concordia.
So by the night of Friday 13th January.
I'd been working on board for four months
as a dancer.
At that point.
it was absolutely my dream job.
It was literally heaven on earth.
Getting to explore the world.
I was in the best shape of my life.
I had great friends.
It was magic.
On behalf of the management
of Costa and the entire crew.
I am pleased and honored
to welcome you on board.
I met Captain Schettino a few times.
The first time I met him
was in the crew elevator.
The only thing I kind of knew about him
was that he was
a newer captain to this ship.
Enjoy your cruise.
One time. my mum came to visit on board.
and he was talking with my mum.
and he was saying
that he was gonna go fishing
on the island with one of his friends
but not to tell anyone
because he wasn't actually allowed
to do that.
And so there was also this. like.
"Oh. he's working the system"
kind of thing.
That night.
around nine. the captain calls me.
A few days earlier.
the head waiter had asked the captain
if the ship could do a sail-by salute
close to Giglio Island
since both his sister and his mother
lived on the island.
He asked me if I would like to join him
on the bridge for the sail-by.
To me. it sounded a bit unusual. because.
as it was night. all dark.
there wasn't much to see.
But. as this was the captain's decision.
we complied.
That night. me and my boyfriend. Andrea.
decided to go up on the deck of the pool.
As I opened the door.
I felt this fresh breeze.
Everything was dark.
but it was light up by the few lights.
Sparkles just reflect on the water.
I lean out. I was watching the sea.
and Andrea. who was behind me.
he hugged me.
He said. "It feels like the Titanic."
At that moment. I…
Actually. I…
I felt a little strange.
But it's crazy. right?
So you… you just…
leave that… that thought behind.
And then I received this call
from my mother.
She said. "We are here in the restaurant."
"They are beginning to serve dinner.
so please come on. join us."
It was kind of an important dinner
because. at midnight.
it would be her birthday.
That night. we had a really nice dinner.
Can you say hi to Daddy?
But following dinner.
with Lila being one. it was time for bed.
We went back to the cabin
and put her down.
We just did
our traditional bedtime routine.
Getting on my pajamas.
I come out of the shower.
have my boxer shorts on. getting into bed.
And I remember laying down
and actually verbalizing.
"I am exhausted."
Um. that was such a long day.
As we are getting closer to the island.
I see that we're getting too close.
so I mention this to the head waiter
who's standing next to me.
I said. "I think
we're getting a little too close."
Suddenly.
the shore became clearly visible.
On this particular night.
with my friends.
we had the half-hour break.
I was dating one of the barmen from Peru.
who was working in the Londra Bar
at the back of Deck 5.
at the back of the ship.
and I wanted to see him.
so I said to everybody else.
I was like. "Do you wanna go get
a cappuccino in the Londra Bar?"
And so everyone was like.
"Oh yeah. let's go do that."
As the ship got closer to the island.
what surprised me quite a bit
was that the ship never slowed down.
In that moment. I started to panic.
The head waiter tells me. "No. look."
"The captain knows very well
what he is doing."
And then he didn't finish the sentence.
I heard and felt a sound and a vibration.
For me. the room starting to slowly shift
just was incredibly unnerving.
You know. my body tensed up.
and I knew something was terribly wrong.
We heard a loud screeching sound.
And then the noise changes
from a screech to a scraping noise.
and that's a terrifying noise to hear.
Can you imagine
a thousand plates breaking in one time?
I was so scared
because the sound was really high.
And all this boiling water
from the braiser starts falling down.
I was one of 180 chefs.
No one knows what's happening.
I thought it's rough sea.
and it's gonna be all right.
And after a few seconds…
no. it's something not right.
I turned and saw
that the ship had crashed into the rocks
on the left side.
You could literally see
the water entering the ship's hull.
We were all shocked and unable to move.
Calm down.
-It's better if you sit down.
-Sit down?
-Yes.
Everyone was freaking out.
And I was looking at my mum
that was right in front of me.
She looked at me and said. "It's okay."
"Everything okay."
She was trying to do everything
to make me feel like
nothing bad was happening.
but I knew it was.
We're just standing there.
looking at what to do next.
I quickly stopped having any emotion.
and I looked at Nicholas. and he said.
"We need to get out of here.
and we need to get out of here now."
He said. "Did you hear that?
Did you feel that?"
I definitely felt panic.
and so my body sort of goes
into this crisis-response mode.
You know. I've been accused of being
an unemotional person.
but at that moment.
it was just pure survival
and just trying to lead my family out
of this thing.
I yelled to Meghan.
I said. "Grab the baby."
Like. "We've gotta go."
Seeing him react the way that he did.
I immediately felt dread.
I grabbed Lila out of the crib
in the middle of a deep sleep.
At that point.
I had not grabbed the pacifier.
She was crying immediately.
I threw on jeans. but that was it.
I didn't have a shirt on.
Meghan had Lila in her arms.
And we ran out the door.
As soon as the impact occurred.
my first thought is to go and see
what happened down there.
And near the machine room.
the chief engineer comes out.
all alarmed and scared.
He tells me it's a disaster downstairs.
water entering at full force.
I felt helpless.
We burst out the door into the hallway.
I was thinking the ship was just gonna be
slowly tipping over.
and in my head. It was just a race
to get to the lifeboat deck.
And so we started just racing
up the stairs as fast as we could.
Meghan and the baby behind me.
The adrenaline starts rushing.
Panic was hitting.
Lila's been crying the whole time.
We were taking stairs two by two.
and I was holding the baby.
trying to keep up.
I was struggling.
I felt physically sick.
I said. "I think I'm gonna throw up."
John said.
"Just throw up and keep running."
"Just don't stop. Just keep going."
We got to the fourth level deck
where the lifeboats are.
And there was a couple
that passed out life vests to everybody.
At this point. it was only a few people.
and there was this ice of anxiety
that you have
with no one giving you information.
No one was instructing us what to do.
And right then. the lights went out.
It was just pitch black.
Suddenly I'm being separated
from Meghan and Lila.
I don't know
if it was three stairs or 13 stairs.
but they were not next to me.
I was scared.
and I remember yelling for him.
"John! John!"
Yelling. following each other's voices.
It felt like an eternity.
When we did reconnect. I remember saying.
"Just grab my waistline on my jeans
and don't let go."
I had Lila in my arms
and just continued up two steps at a time.
The chief engineer
came to the bridge with me.
Together with Captain Schettino.
they open the ship plans
and try to understand the damage
the ship has really suffered.
On the bridge.
the sound of the impact was hardly felt.
while the people who were
in the restaurant in the back area.
they felt the full force of the impact.
Your attention. please.
I speak on behalf of the captain.
We're currently in a blackout
as we're experiencing electrical failure.
At this point.
the situation is under control.
and our technicians
are working to solve the situation.
We'll give you further information
as it becomes available.
They continued to say things like.
"Don't worry. everything is fine."
-"Go back to your room."
We have made
an announcement on behalf of the captain.
We kindly ask you
to go back to your cabin.
I kept thinkin'.
"I'm not gonna go back to my room."
-No way.
-There's no way.
I don't even know if I could find the room
at that point. to be honest.
I see that the passengers are very scared.
and they are asking me what has happened.
And. not to go against
what the captain has said.
I couldn't give them a different version
as I would only do more damage.
The inability to act. This is the problem.
We don't know what's happening.
Every announcement we heard. we believe.
We heard. okay. there is a minor fault.
The captain. whatever he said.
that's the final word.
And I heard the chef saying.
"Oh. nobody… Don't move. Don't move."
"Just stay there where you are
and be ready for the dinner service."
It felt like it was a long time
before the lights came back on.
We're still running up the stairs.
And then finally we entered out
into the deck where the lifeboats were.
Hundreds and hundreds of people
shoulder to shoulder.
You're hit with a wall of panic.
People yelling. arguing. trying to decide
what to do. what's going on.
Every crew member saying.
"There's been an electrical failure
or issue. We're not evacuating."
Lila is in my arms. still crying.
I was a new mother.
and so the loss of control of
not having a way to help her…
My primary focus was
on the nurturing and comfort of my child.
It was very hard
hearing and seeing Meghan struggle.
And at that point.
I remember looking John in the eye
and saying. "I want to get off the ship."
In this endless
period of general confusion.
the captain was often on the phone
with the company crisis coordinator.
They didn't tell the truth
because. in my opinion.
the captain was fully panicking.
He couldn't understand what had happened.
In the restaurant.
we looked at the crew
for some direction on what to do.
but they seemed in panic.
Then finally. the waiters told us
to reach the pool deck.
Everybody was scrambling
because everyone was panicking.
Exit the other side. please.
Exit the other side.
There was a lot
of broken dishes and glasses on the floor.
and we were dressed up for the dinner.
so we wore high heels.
But finally. we reached the pool deck.
and I remember. I looked out the windows.
I saw Giglio Island.
Look. there's the coast.
There's no problem.
Look. Alice. look at the land.
We have arrived!
We could see the lights.
We could see the… you know. the port.
So I say. "Oh. Oh. okay.
we are just… next to the land.
so it's okay. It's gonna be fine."
Many people relaxed.
and that's where the problem is.
We lowered our defenses.
There were three chefs.
They were stuck in the elevator.
They were shouting
and knocking the elevator door.
Four people went there.
And we forced the door to open.
and we took them out.
At the back of Deck 5.
the ship was listing more and more.
I remember thinking to myself.
"I can't stay here."
"I need to get off the ship."
And as I'm walking along the corridor.
I see my superior.
She sees me.
and she says. "Where are you going?"
And I say.
"I'm going to my muster station."
She said. "No. you're not."
"You're gonna go back into the lounge.
and you're going to entertain passengers."
And I couldn't believe what I was hearing.
and I said. "I quit."
I went straight to my muster station.
I didn't wait for any code. any signal.
any mayday. nothing.
I'm on Deck 4.
I'm at the front of the ship.
We. the crew.
we're in a completely segregated.
different area.
My superior officer was supposed to come.
but when he arrived.
it was like seeing a ghost.
He was completely white. Completely white.
There was nothing behind his eyes.
I felt like I was seeing a zombie.
He had his… his engineer suit on.
which is kind of like a onesie
or a Babygro.
It's like an all-in-one.
and it was completely drenched in water.
And when he came.
he wasn't able to communicate.
It was at that point that I was like.
"Okay. we've got no leadership."
"It's falling to me."
I am on the bridge.
and I say to the officers.
"Look. the ship
is already tilting 20 degrees."
So a light should've gone off
in their head. since it is their job.
and they should know
that the more the ship tilts.
the more stability is lost.
The level of the water
was now getting closer and closer
to where we were at.
What seemed to be
so far from the lifeboats
is now creeping closer and closer
to where we were.
and I was kinda getting
more panicked and scared.
and I started to film
everything that I could.
People having to grab the side
in order to stay from sliding
to the side of the boat.
No one's telling us what to do.
and then Nicholas said…
"This boat's going down.
We need to get off."
Wait. wait. Her husband. her husband.
So we opened up the lifeboat.
and when we got in there.
we started looking
at. like. you know. the pulley system
and then also the motors.
I'm getting pushed!
I'm…
We actually now start to see
what looks like a chef.
and he's got a life vest on.
He comes and tells us.
"You are not supposed to touch
all of this."
He closes the gate.
-Hey. hey. hey. one by one.
-What do you wanna say?
I'm getting a bit louder.
"This doesn't make sense."
"We need to get off this boat."
And we're kinda starting to freak out.
It was very evident
that it wasn't only a blackout.
that the passengers stopped believing this
and started calling the police.
They were saying
there had been a blackout.
but they weren't telling them
the reality of the situation.
The captain probably wanted
to exonerate himself
from what was happening.
Which is very wrong. in my opinion.
Some chef comes up and says.
"You know what?
Something big has happened.
and Deck C is leaking."
When he said Deck C is leaking.
I forgot everything.
I run to the downstairs.
because whenever I get paid.
I used to keep my money under the bed.
I was in a lot of debt.
I had put my family in trouble.
I was keep thinking every day I will
get enough money to pay all my debt.
All my hard work. everything that I save.
under my bed.
So I have to get my money.
which I have in my cabin in Deck B.
I see chief security guard standing there.
and he was stopping me. saying.
"You're not… you're not allowed
to go in Deck B."
He said. "No one is allowed in this area."
I said. "But I have
very important things to take."
He said.
"Nothing important than your life."
He was right.
I have to get to my lifeboat.
On the bridge. there is a lot of chaos.
The other officers are speechless.
They don't know what to do.
And at this point. they hit
the general emergency button.
and the blasts are triggered.
Suddenly. we heard the first siren blast.
At that moment. everybody went quiet.
We heard one horn and then a second horn.
And about this time. I think.
"No shit." you know? That this is
what we've been waiting on all night.
This was probably
one of the ugliest points of the evening
because it was just hundreds of people
fighting to push through each other
and push over each other
to get to these life rafts.
Hey. hey!
I was being shoved around
by people my father's age.
Ladies and gentlemen.
your attention. please.
Please remain calm
and go to your muster station on Deck 4
Military mentality prevails on the ship.
Hierarchy is important.
Each person has a role.
Why did it take them 45 minutes
to call a general emergency?
I think the captain wanted to see
how the situation evolved.
In my opinion. it should have been sounded
no later than five minutes after impact.
I went down to Deck 4
to try to save as many people as possible
and lead the rescue operations.
The ship was tilted.
and my mother began to struggle
with her heels.
She held my hand really tight
and said. "Don't let me go."
At this moment.
we. without saying a word.
looked at each other
and knew what we had to do.
One by one. one by one.
Get the kids. go. go. You. you. you. you.
And we start
getting people into the lifeboat.
You never know
what kind of person you are.
like. flight or fight.
You never know
if you're gonna be that person
that's just gonna stand there still
or go into action.
You go. you go.
Bring the children here.
The lifeboats can only hold 150 people.
so you have to make sure
there's only 150 people.
Stop. We're going to capsize.
We're going to capsize. Stop!
Stop!
No. no. no!
We've got quite a few people on the boat.
close to the 150-people maximum.
People are offering money
to get on a boat. It was very sad.
One of 'em was. like.
a little bit more elderly.
and I was just like. "Oh man."
-What is your name?
-Nicholas Taliaferro.
-From where? Nicholas?
-San Diego. California.
It's very helpful.
I was sitting waiting in the lifeboat.
There's a point that people wanted to say
their names on the camera.
We're Steve and Kathy.
from Port Huron. Michigan.
We're Marie and Melissa.
-We're gonna stay together.
-Yes. we're gonna stay together.
It's so eerie
because they thought they were gonna die.
We were on the high side of the ship.
There's just dozens and dozens of people
piling into what essentially is.
like. a metal canister.
Then we eventually had
our turn to get into the lifeboat.
"Let's get this life raft
actually down into the water."
Everybody. once they were on.
was just dying to hear that order.
Think we might be ready to go.
I looked at the people in the lifeboats.
and they were scared.
They were waiting for the signal
of abandon ship.
Yes. but why are they
not sending the lifeboats down?
We were expecting this signal.
to abandon ship.
But it was slow to arrive.
and it was not clear why.
And I noticed
everybody was wearing a life jacket.
but we didn't find one.
And I remember Luisa looked at my mother.
and she said. "I can't swim."
She was pretty scared.
My mother said.
"I need to go to the cabin."
"I need to get Luisa's life jacket.
and also I will change my shoes
because I can't walk anymore."
And I say. "No!"
"This is the worst idea ever."
"There's no way
I'm going back to our cabin."
"It's two deck below."
And she said. "We are going."
"If you don't want to come with us.
you can just wait here with Andrea."
Yes. they're coming down.
I see them. I see them.
As soon as I entered the lifeboat.
I called my mother.
and I said. "Where are you?"
She told me
she was about to get onto a lifeboat too.
We are going down. We are going down.
Just because we were on the lifeboat
didn't make us feel any better.
Hands in. hands in.
When it went
to slowly go down to the waterline.
we started holding hands
and say "Our Father."
And we said it repeatedly and repeatedly
and over and over and over again.
"We are gonna do this together."
We could see what would've been our room.
which was above where the lifeboats were.
was… was right at water level
at this point.
Oh. look at that list. Holy shit!
Oh my God. the boat is sinking.
Sh! We don't wanna be
yelling it out loud. guys.
That would scare the shit outta me
if I was up there.
Glad to be outta there.
I saw the crew member getting
the go-ahead to deploy the lifeboat.
and I remember thinking. "Thank God."
We finally had gotten this close
to getting off the boat.
We were on a high side at this point.
I was holding Lila.
and then. within seconds.
I had the feeling
of. like. a rollercoaster ride
where your stomach drops.
It was a big drop.
a big bang. and then a tumble.
God. now I am scared!
The lifeboat tipped. and it
basically flung 80 people in that boat.
Piles of people
just slamming against one another.
You're just a mangling of bodies
and people screaming and crying.
With the ship at an angle.
they basically deployed the lifeboat
right into the side of the cruise ship.
We were on what was now
the high side of the lifeboat
and basically holding ourselves up
with our feet.
I was bleeding.
You know. our feet were bleeding.
Lila's crying is just shattering Meghan.
I remember crying out to John.
you know. "John.
I'm not gonna be able to hold Lila."
And I handed Lila to you.
It was an extremely precarious situation.
I don't know
whether the thing was gonna drop
because we were high off of the waterline.
Below us on the lifeboat. there were
clearly people that needed help.
but I…
My entire focus was on saving my family.
We really didn't know
how we could get outta this thing.
At that point. I heard myself say.
"Are we gonna die?"
The captain found it difficult
to give this order
because when the captain says
abandon ship. the ship is lost.
People are leaving the ship. but for me.
it was real bad situation.
I was still in the ship.
I was really scared
because I don't know swimming.
In order to join in the cruise line.
you have to be trained by swimming.
But my institute.
they put me in a life jacket.
and they just pushed me
in the swimming pool.
And I was floating. and the next minute.
they took me out from the pool.
and they said.
"Yeah. your training is done."
So I don't know what to do.
The ship was falling. like. really fast.
"I'm… I'm going to die."
And then one of my colleagues saw me
with my wet eyes.
and he said. "Come with me."
The water had reached Deck 3.
and he guided me to Deck 4
on the other side.
I reach other side. and I get in the boat.
When I left.
I can see a lot of people still inside.
They were struggling to… to be rescued.
I didn't believe it's happening.
I was still thinking it must be a dream.
And one of my friends was working with me.
and he just told me and said.
"Hey. you see?"
"Captain is sitting in the lifeboat."
And that was surprising me.
Why captain need to get out before me?
It's tilting.
Look at that!
As the ship was sinking.
we kept tilting and tilting and tilting.
We couldn't stand up.
so we rearranged ourselves
onto the side of the ship.
What we were also seeing
on this high part of the ship.
there was a lifeboat
that was trying to deploy and go down.
and. because of the angle of the ship.
the lifeboat was rolling.
and we saw
people being tipped out into the water.
Help me!
On the open area that we're in.
there's a set of double doors.
and behind that is a horizontal corridor.
and it's very wide.
And the other side of it is a… a railing.
but because we were tipping so much.
it was becoming impassable.
We have to get across this chasm.
and we need to get to a lifeboat.
or we at least need to jump in the water.
I yelled out to all the crew members.
what we're gonna do is
we're gonna throw people across the way
so that they can catch on to the banister
and then climb down
to the side of the ship
that was closer to the water.
I'm standing on one side.
I've got a man standing on the other side.
and we're taking people under the arms.
and we're just throwing them.
After we managed to get everyone across.
there were five of us
that. um. at that point. got stranded.
We had tilted so high
that now this was truly an elevator shaft.
There's no way we could've made it across.
At this point.
everything went eerily peaceful.
and it felt like being marooned
on a desert island.
We've gotta get out of the lifeboat.
There was a hatch that wasn't too far
from us that was open
where that was the clear escape point.
The few of us who were not in the pile
at the bottom of it
basically began to try to climb out
through that hatch.
One by one. we climbed our way out.
Then once on the top of the lifeboat.
you then had to get onto the cruise ship.
which was now above us. and we…
There was a gap that we had to clear.
We had to make a human chain.
but there was no way
I could actually climb out
while carrying Lila.
I had to hand Lila to a stranger.
Dangling over the Mediterranean
in the dark.
You know. one slip
and you're down in the water.
which was. you know. who knows
how far below us at that point.
I've always had a fear of heights.
so the notion that I would be
climbing up the side of a ship.
like. by my fingertips.
probably six stories up.
in the dark
over the Med is. like. crazy to me.
But it was the only way Lila or I
or Meghan were getting off.
Then we eventually had to get back
on the ship.
which was a real dark spot
in the night for us.
Our first thought was.
"Is there another lifeboat?"
But it was very quickly evident
that there were no lifeboats left.
I was saying to John.
"Let's swim. We can survive this."
We started talking really seriously
about what it would actually involve.
The height of the jump.
Could Lila survive that jump?
Can we swim with Lila
in the temperature of the water?
So we were weighing
the likelihood of surviving it
against staying on the ship.
That was the time where a different level
of realization began to sink in
that we may not be getting off this boat.
As a Christian.
we're told to not bargain with God.
But that's where your head goes.
And I said.
"God. you just get me off this ship.
I will… show Lila who Jesus is.
I will raise this kid right.
but you've got to get us off this ship."
With the ship being so far tilted over.
we were at the high side.
Then I see what looked like a crew member.
He was dressed in white.
He looked official
in some sort of a uniform. and…
He looked at Lila. He looked at us.
He said. "Get down to this level
on the other side of the ship."
"You all probably are gonna need to swim."
"That's where you're gonna have
the best chance to survive."
I look towards the front of the ship
and see a small group
of passengers standing still.
And I thought. "Are they in trouble?"
"Why haven't they joined all of us?"
Walking towards this small group.
it was very difficult to tell the wall
from the floor.
so I was forced to walk on the walls
at this point.
At first. I checked if the doors
could hold my weight. using my foot.
But then. unfortunately.
one of the doors opened like a hatch.
I fell into the empty darkness
and passed out.
When we got to the island.
what are we supposed to do now?
Where do we go?
There was nobody giving direction
to anyone.
At one point. I screamed.
"Is there anybody that can help us?"
And faintly. I heard someone say.
"Go to the church!"
The first thing I did
was to call my mother.
but the phone didn't ring anymore.
But she said she was on a lifeboat.
so she have to be here somewhere.
We began to search for her and Luisa.
The island was very crowded.
and it seemed impossible to find someone.
We entered every shop.
We entered the church.
The crew still does not know
anything. and the ship is still sinking.
They don't know if anyone's still on it.
We found a little nook in the church.
Everyone's been really anxious
and very scared and cold.
I went and found those foil blankets.
I was able to bring 'em back
to the church.
I can still remember people calling out
their family's name and no reply.
Judy!
Steve! Steve!
Kathy!
We looked everywhere for my mother.
and finally. I just stand near some people
who were watching the ship
because I thought
maybe her lifeboat isn't arrived yet.
As the time passes.
we noticed that the ship
was tilting even more.
This is straight out
of a scene of Titanic. Completely.
To see it from that viewpoint
was so scary.
Yeah. you could see
people on the boat waving their hands.
ask… like…
You could see 'em begging for help.
It was horrible to see it.
Even though you knew you were safe.
you knew that there was
still people trapped on the ship.
We could see there was an open hallway
that went all the way through the ship
to the opposite railing.
and that was going to be the obvious way
for us to get to the other side.
So that cross hallway was
effectively. you know. a 200-foot slide.
So we knew
that once we were on our bottoms.
we could not get back onto our feet.
The boat was still moving so much that
every. you know. half a degree it moved.
a new piece of furniture would just go
barreling down the hallway.
I had Lila still strapped to me.
and I sort of held her on my chest…
…and just slid down that whole thing.
You're tumbling very awkwardly.
barreling down this cross section
on our backs.
Furniture and just stuff all around us.
I mean. we had to be going
20 miles an hour.
I remember feeling a jolt.
Lila's just slammed her head.
Oh my goodness.
she just hit her head so hard.
"Is she okay?"
I mean. I thought for sure
she wouldn't be able to survive that.
I remember him telling me
when we got to the bottom of the slide.
in a… almost like a confession.
"Lila hit her head very hard."
And I could remember the pain in his face.
I think that my reaction
was just to check on her
and that she was crying.
and it was just more of like
a. "She's okay. Let's keep moving."
Once I woke up. I quickly checked myself.
and I realized that I had a broken leg.
Looking around.
I understood that I was in the restaurant.
I started to shout. "Help. help. help!"
But obviously nobody could hear me.
Next to me. there was a frying pan.
I grabbed this pan
and tried to bang it on the ground.
Whilst we're marooned on this doorway.
Deck 5. I could hear knocking.
And it wasn't like. um…
a mechanical kind of knocking.
It was almost like. you know.
like people were trying to let us know
where they were.
But there's no way. like…
We couldn't get to them.
Once we got to the low side.
we could see the water.
Finally. we are this close.
We were trying to get the attention
of whatever lifeboats could maybe hear us.
Hey!
I could see
a lifeboat with people's faces.
I made eye contact with a woman.
and we just sort of locked eyes
for probably just a moment.
I held up Lila and said.
"Bambino." you know. "Take my baby."
And she just… shook her head.
I think she wishes she could help
but couldn't.
At this point.
I was completely broken psychologically.
In my head. I prayed a lot.
But all of a sudden. we noticed
that there was a couple of lifeboats empty
and kind of lingering around the boat.
We saw signs of life.
We both jumped into action. thinking.
"Oh my gosh. are the…
are the lifeboats coming back
for more people?"
And when we did get the attention
of the captain of the lifeboat.
he was trying to get to the opening
where we were standing.
It felt like we were on that deck
waiting what seemed like forever.
During this whole time. the ship continued
to slowly tip further and further.
We just felt like
every minute could be our last.
The lifeboats themselves
are probably ten or 15 feet below us.
The ocean was very rough.
so the boat's sort of banging
against the cruise ship.
And so even the process of being able
to get onto the lifeboat was a risk.
But somehow.
we climbed our way onto the boat.
We're so relieved.
We drove right out from under it.
I mean. and you look up
out the opening of the lifeboat.
and we literally couldn't see sky.
The entire sky is
the side of the cruise ship.
Lila had quieted.
I remember holding her in my arms.
and I was hoping that she's okay.
that nothing was wrong.
I definitely felt like I'm all alone.
Nobody's coming to rescue us.
Then we started hearing
helicopters going overhead.
But the ship was covering us
like an umbrella.
They can't see us.
I couldn't get down to the water level.
I couldn't get back inside the ship.
At this point. we were sinking.
And that was the moment
when this little reel of my life
started playing in front of my eyes.
I remember my dad saying that
it shouldn't be
that children die before parents.
So it was at that mo… moment
that that fight kicked in.
I have to figure out how to survive.
At that point.
I think. "How can they see us?"
And then I realized
I have this flashlight in my pocket.
I don't know Morse code.
but I started flashing the light
to the boat in front of us.
Rescue India Mike Alpha.
Go ahead. go ahead.
We have a signal from someone.
We're going to assist them.
Okay. perfect.
And then.
all of a sudden. this man floats down
like James Bond.
We're pulled up into the helicopter.
and one at a time.
they went back down
and got the other four.
All right. well done.
Received three people in good condition
who will be taken to Grosseto Airport.
where people are waiting for first aid.
When I flew away.
I could see everything that I loved
and everything that was my reality
was gone.
But I was alive.
It was late on a Friday night.
My feed was lit up from passengers
who were on some cruise ship
off the coast of Tuscany on Giglio Island.
I knew the only way to find out
what was really going on
was to go there.
It's a crowded cruise ship
that ran aground and is tipped over.
…passengers described
as scenes from the movie Titanic.
As many as 70 people may be missing.
I arrived in Giglio the following day.
about. I wanna say. 6:30 a.m.
I will never forget
seeing the Costa Concordia.
It was difficult not to just stare
at this gigantic boulder
protruding out of the bottom of it.
My job is to try to explain
how on earth this happened.
An Italian cruise ship ran aground
off the coast of Tuscany last night.
Let's be honest. you have thought about it
every time you get on a plane
or a cruise ship.
What happens if something goes wrong?
Well. it happened.
The ship is now in very shallow water.
but it is because of the size of the ship
and the placement of it
in this very rocky area
that they have several dozen
Italian coast-guard divers
who are checking out the perimeter
and inside the ship right now
to see if they can find anyone there.
I am a fire department diver
who specializes in cave diving.
Two single dives. 40 minutes each.
Total duration for the operation.
two hours.
It was my mother's birthday.
and I thought
that I should be at the restaurant.
singing her "Happy Birthday."
but now I am on Giglio Island.
sitting on the ground.
just wondering. "Where is she?"
And I asked myself.
"Will I ever see her again?"
As the time ticked on
and the water was cold.
you know. this is January.
the chance of survival
for anyone after the first 24 hours
ob… obviously diminishes.
Okay.
Detach.
All right!
The fear is huge
because there really was a risk
of ending up at the bottom of the sea
inside this gigantic ship
and becoming victims instead of rescuers.
Everything
that wasn't attached became an obstacle.
There were wires.
There were sharp edges.
All of these things. obviously.
for a diver. puts them at risk.
Dawn finally came. and with it. light.
I was still in this restaurant.
Hours go by. and hypothermia comes.
Having to spend another night
in those conditions. honestly.
I couldn't be sure
I would survive until the next morning.
I started to think that. uh…
if I could… if I could get out
of this situation…
I could start
thinking about having a family.
Um… that was perhaps
what was missing in my life.
We hadn't slept for 48 hours.
The van door opens.
and my boss says.
"There's one more to save. We have to go."
The hotel manager. Manrico Giampedroni.
who was last seen
by several of the witnesses
trying to save people
in the hospitality area of the ship.
calling out for any survivors.
"We are the fire department!
We are the fire department!"
"Is anyone there?"
"Is there someone there?
Can anyone hear me?"
And. at a certain point.
there was a response.
All right. calm down. Take it easy.
We had squeezed
into the bowels of the tunnel.
so we didn't have natural lighting.
The light could not reach there.
We were. like. inside a cave.
Okay. that's fine. Slowly.
Slowly. That's fine.
Slowly.
That's right!
And then I see
the person we're looking for.
"Hi. what's your name?
What's your name?" I ask.
And he answers me. "Manrico."
"Manrico Giampedroni."
He tells me. "Hi. I'm Francesco…
one of your rescuers."
He tells me. "Don't worry now."
"We'll get you out."
After 13 years. I still cry.
It's unbelievable.
Always something
akin to a miracle in disasters.
This time.
it was a crewman trapped inside.
found by rescuers going cabin to cabin
and tapping on the hull.
Two days trapped with a broken leg.
Did you think you might not make it?
Yes. when I was alone
in the restaurant. yes.
After the shock. the panic. the chaos.
tears of relief.
Dancer Rose Metcalf was one of the last
to be rescued from the sinking ship.
Others. including Nick Tally
and his friends. are also safe.
There was families trembling.
handing me their children.
telling me. you know.
"Take my child. Put him on the boat."
And we had to wait over an hour and a half
before we could get onto that boat.
I had to wait two years.
My mother's body was
one of the last ones to be found.
Finding her body
wasn't comforting for me at all.
It's like
Costa Concordia interrupted my life.
She was my entire world.
and I was hers.
What's the name of this beautiful child?
This girl is called Stefania.
Whose is this child?
The captain
of the cruise ship that ran aground here
on the coast of Tuscany
has been stopped
by the Italian authorities.
He's being investigated for manslaughter
and for abandoning ship.
These are two very serious offenses
in maritime law.
Thirty-two people died that night.
including a 5-year-old child.
In the days after the accident.
the Costa PR team was really
the only conduit for the information.
and it was very clear they had
already decided whose fault it was.
And tonight.
the blame game has stepped up a gear
with the ship's owners saying
that their captain was at fault.
We believe it has been
a… a human error here.
The captain did not follow
the authorized route.
Captain. Captain!
One
of the most dramatic aspects of the story
happened on 17th January.
A local journalist found a USB key
in his unlocked vehicle.
This USB contained
an intercept of a conversation
between the coast guard in Livorno
and Captain Schettino
in the period of time
after Schettino said he had left the ship.
I am here to coordinate the rescue.
Coordinate the rescue
from on board. Are you refusing?
No. no. I'm not refusing.
Are you refusing to go on board. Captain?
Tell me. why are you not going on board?
Once you heard this commander saying
to Captain Schettino.
"Get back on the… on the ship."
you couldn't unhear it.
You must not make any other assessment.
You have declared abandon ship.
Now I am in charge!
Go back on board!
Is that clear? Can you not hear me?
-I am going back on board.
-Go!
The inarguable result
of that was that anyone.
anywhere in the world.
knew Captain Schettino as Captain Coward.
Can you let me through?
The Italian captain. Francesco Schettino.
striding into court this morning
with that same confident swagger
he displayed aboard his ship.
Captain Francesco Schettino
was in court today
to face charges of multiple manslaughter.
causing a maritime disaster.
and causing personal injury to 150 people.
The trial lasted for several years.
and it was held inside of a theater
in the city of Grosseto.
And I went to every single hearing.
The prosecution has laid the blame
for the disaster
very firmly on Captain Schettino.
It says that in his command of his ship.
he was grossly negligent.
but the captain denies
all the charges against him.
and he insists that others must share
responsibility for what happened.
The entire focus was on Captain Schettino.
but one of the primary questions
that a lot of us had
was whether or not this was
some sort of a mechanical failure.
Shortly after the accident.
the black box was recovered.
but it was faulty.
and so it seemed for a period of time
that there would be absolutely no way
to find out
what was really going on on the bridge
the night of the accident.
2012. I was
a young computer science researcher.
I was given a bunch of discs
from the Costa Concordia.
Two experts already tried
to take the data out.
and they both failed.
So I was obsessed.
I created a software which describes
everything that happened that night.
The emergency generator
of the Costa Concordia
had a problem that night.
In particular. it powered
on and off several time
and almost never was able to connect
to the emergency power lines
and power the emergency devices.
It's impossible to know with certainty
exactly how people died on the ship.
but we do know
that at least two of the lifeboats
on the upper side of the ship failed
because of
the emergency generator's failure.
and we know
that those people had to disembark
and had to try to find their way
to other lifeboats on the same deck. four.
We also know that… that.
because of the failure
of the emergency generator.
the elevators weren't working.
When running the software
I wrote to put all this data in sync.
there was one big surprise.
Immediately before the accident.
we found out that there was a mismatch
between the order given to the helmsman
and what he was doing.
We hear Schettino
giving some instructions.
and the helmsman. for 13 seconds.
does the exact opposite.
Later. an independent study
by Professor Bruno Neri
and Paolo Neri of the University of Pisa
demonstrated that if Schettino's orders
would have been executed correctly.
the impact would have been partial
or nonexistent.
In the early 2000s.
the cruise industry was exploding.
and the Italian-run
Costa cruise-line company was in trouble.
They couldn't compete.
The only way
that they could survive in that market
was to be acquired
by an American corporation.
With Costa's expansion.
they had to find staff
and to try to train them as quickly
and efficiently as possible.
It's important to note
that Captain Schettino himself
had written to Costa
and said that he was concerned
that people were being promoted
too quickly.
that they weren't being
trained adequately.
and they just didn't fit in line
with the type of ship he wanted to run.
What we know about the helmsman is that
he had been promoted quickly to the job.
and it seems very clear
that at the moment of crisis
when he was needed very much to understand
the orders from Captain Schettino.
there was a language barrier.
and it is likely
that he just didn't understand
what the captain told him to do.
In the name
of the Italian people. the court.
in accordance with articles 533 and 535.
declares Francesco Schettino
guilty of the crimes attributed to him
The total sentence of 16 years
of imprisonment and one month of arrest.
Today. the captain of the Costa Concordia
was convicted of manslaughter
and abandoning ship
and sentenced to 16 years.
I will never work
for the cruise industry ever again.
And I pray
nobody should face this situation.
All my money.
I lost it.
But I learned that life
is more important than money.
And so every morning when I wake up.
the first thing I do.
I say thank you.
I learnt a lot.
Now I can swim.
You wanna sing again? Okay. go ahead.
Ma-ma-ma.
Ama-ma-ma-ma!
Two. three…
When we got home.
I mean. I was completely broken.
I mean. I was diagnosed with PTSD.
I had panic attacks. I had nightmares.
We were worried about Lila
after all that she had gone through
both physically and emotionally.
We had to watch her for a couple of weeks
just to make sure everything was fine.
Oh. look at that tongue.
What other funny faces can you make?
I saw what it did to me.
but this is a one-year-old
that can't communicate.
and so I remember we were talking
to psychologists and specialists.
See you later. bye! Have fun!
-Bye-bye.
But she turned out to have
a perfectly normal childhood.
So we… we talk about it often.
It's like.
why did God choose to save us that night?
You know. why are we here?
What is it that we should be doing
with the time he's given us?
Lila has her life.
the beautiful life she's lived.
And. by God's grace. uh… we survived.
John. she survived because of you.
I just fought so hard that night
to try to save them.
There were times
I didn't think we were gonna get off.
But I'm so glad we did.
I just look back. what the last decade
or so has been like.
like the lives we've been able to live.
we feel so fortunate for.
Lila is the most well-rounded.
grounded. incredible 15-year-old.
And she's the most beautiful ballerina.
She has this God-given passion for dance.
She's just such a beautiful young woman.
The world is her oyster.
She's gonna have some impact on it
as a result
of getting off the ship that night.
We learned very shortly after we got back
that Meghan was pregnant.
You know. she was pregnant that night
as we were fighting for our lives.
One of the greatest gifts I could've
been given was that pregnancy.
What's funny is my ultrasounds show.
when they timed the baby.
the… the conception date
was the night of the cruise disaster.
and we were like. "I can assure you that's
not when he was conceived." but. um…
Now you know why
I didn't have time to put my shirt on!
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org